# Pavish's work log

# Working on (Ordered based on priority):
* Re-review [Db connection UI #3223](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/pull/3223)
* Help with User interviews and CRM
* Review [[i18n] Export & import translations](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/pull/3123)
* Figure out E2E testing strategy and user flows
* [Turn off the Stale Issues Bot](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/issues/3142)

# Daily logs
## 2023-10-09
* (Had a partial workday due to family commitments)
* Started writing up project for E2E testing strategy
* Started re-reviewing [Db connection UI #3223](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/pull/3223)

## 2023-10-06
* Architecture call with Brent
* Figured out steps to schedule calls in SavvyCal with common account
* Call to discuss UX for database connections

## 2023-10-05
* Reviewed and suggested changes in [Db connection UI #3223](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/pull/3223)
* Multiple calls with Rajat
* Reviewed and merged [fix: read-only css for input](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/pull/3197)
* Reviewed and closed [Fix visual regression of input appreaing disabled](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/pull/3196)
* Mathesar weekly meeting

## 2023-10-04
* Continued reviewing [Db connection UI #3223](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/pull/3223)
* Sync with Mukesh
* Tried to find more options in SavvyCal for scheduling calls under a team email

## 2023-10-03
* Reviewed [Add user outreach email template](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar_internal_crm/pull/1)
* Call with Sean and Ghislaine on User interviews and CRM
* Replied to cycle retrospective mail
* Started reviewing [Db connection UI #3223](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/pull/3223)

## 2023-10-02
* Checked out Calendly and SavvyCal features for team wide round-robin meetings
* Responded to Kriti's mail on User interviews
* Conversations in user raised GH ticket: [Disable shema modifications #3228](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/issues/3228)
* Took a look at [Fix visual regression of input appreaing disabled #3196](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/pull/3196) and [fix: read-only css for input #3197](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/pull/3197)
  - #3197 is better but it needs additional changes before merging. I'll be making the changes myself and merge it in.

## 2023-09-29
* Pondered more on user flows for E2E tests
* Responded to user raised GH ticket: [Disable shema modifications #3228](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/issues/3228)
* Core team event

## 2023-09-28
* Call with Brent on E2E testing and dealing with regressions
* Call with Sean and Ghislaine on User interviews and CRM

## 2023-09-27
* Weekly meeting
* Researched more on E2E testing strategy

## 2023-09-26
* Debugged setup issue in PR and resolved conflict in [Upgrade node version, remove Storybook](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/pull/3214)
* 1-1 with Kriti

## 2023-09-25
* Read through breaking changes in Svelte 4 and started figuring out approach to migrate
* 1-1 with Sean

## 2023-09-22
* Pondered on Niche research outcome and product level questions to raise
* Collected some more thoughts on Permission handling in Mathesar

## 2023-09-21
* Re-reviewed (Load "en" translations parallely)[https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/pull/3102]
  - Thought about ways to deal with workarounds
* Call with Rajat to discuss approaches and finalize all changes in this review round
* Reviewed and merged [Survey banner PR](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar-website/pull/93)
* Niche research meeting with Ghislaine and Sean

## 2023-09-20
* Raised [PR to Add description to column properties, frontend impl](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/pull/3219)

## 2023-09-19
* Raised [PR to upgrade Node](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/pull/3214)

## 2023-09-18
* Call with Rajat to discuss approach in (Load "en" translations parallely)[https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/pull/3102]
  - Pondered about various possible ways to split i18n files cleanly, after the call
* Started upgrading Node version

## 2023-09-15
* Call with Brent to discuss results of effects of different PG permissions in Mathesar

## 2023-09-14
* Continued testing effects of varying PG permissions in Mathesar
  - Identified one critical issue and some potential issues

## 2023-09-13
* Had review call and approved [Design spec for adding user database credentials using the UI](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/issues/3159)
* Continued testing effects of varying PG permissions in Mathesar

## 2023-09-12
* Survey work session with Ghislaine and Sean
* Continued testing effect of varying PG permissions in Mathesar
* Continued working on [Support for column descriptions/comments](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/issues/3069)

## 2023-09-11
* I had a day off work

## 2023-09-08
* Finished testing PG versions 9 and 10 for compatibility
* Started looking through PG permissions to test effect of different permission levels on Mathesar

## 2023-09-07
* Call with Mukesh on static file location
* Reviewed [[i18n] Load "en" translations parallely](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/pull/3102)
* Reviewed [Design spec for adding user database credentials using the UI](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/issues/3159)

## 2023-09-06
* Weekly meeting
* 1:1 with Sean
* Took a look at the form for survey

## 2023-09-05
* Started testing PG versions to test compatibility
* Had a partial work day

## 2023-09-04
* Reviewed, added commits, and merged [Fix URL cell focus loss when clicking on its contained hyperlink](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/pull/3012)
* Call with Brent on Preexisting DB compatibility project
* Responded to mails
* Started work on [Support for column descriptions/comments](https://github.com/centerofci/mathesar/issues/3069)

## 2023-09-01
* Core team event
* Spent time testing to find breaking features with preexisting postgres DB

# Archive
 - [August 2023 work logs](/team/worklogs/archive/2023-08/pavish.md)
 - [July 2023 work logs](/team/worklogs/archive/2023-07/pavish.md)
